>> Todd Gardner: This is the waterfall
chart and the flame chart of this page
load, the one that
Google Lighthouse was based of.
This thing can look kind of
intimidating when you first start it,
because it dumps a lot of data.
This is like everything you could
possibly wanna know about the load
of this page condensed into one screen.
So it's important to know what kind of
questions you're looking to answer.
On the top we have the timeline spread
over the entirety of this page load.
Now this page load was stupid long.
We go from 0 time origin all
the way to 45 seconds in,
which is how long it took
before everything was done and
the LCP events still hadn't even fired.
So from here, we can zoom in on things.
So there's these little grabby
handles on either side, or
we can just drag and
select a particular range.
And that's what's gonna make this
thing way more interesting, is we can
zoom in on particular ranges of data and
see more and more fine grain details.
Right here,
we're looking at the time range.
If we mouse over this area just below
the top, we can mouse over the film strip.
So we're looking over the time
just where FCP happens, or
we go from a white screen
to the first paint.
And what we zoomed on here cuz
everything in this page is connected,
is now looking at the waterfall
at this particular time.
Here's the waterfall
that's going on right now.
The first element is we have
this request for an image,
this request was blocked for a long time.
We see the individual line stretching all
the way back since before we're looking,
this thing was blocked.
It couldn't start downloading for
a long time.
In fact, 3.3 seconds,
it's spent queuing and connecting,
like waiting to get started.
And then here was time where it was
waiting for content from the server.
And if we scroll a little bit,
we can see eventually it starts actually
getting content from the server.
The other things that were happening
at this point in time is here's three
different CSS files that
were all coming down.
Now these all get highlighted here with
little red angles because these are render
blocking.
Saying, hey, these are like high priority
things that stop the screen from painting.
There's some other stuff happening at the
time, some fonts are starting to download.
Then if we look below the waterfall,
we can see a flame chart.
Now at this time range, it does,
It doesn't look like anything yet.
These the waterfall chart and
the flame chart typically happen
at very different time scales.
We're looking at like a couple
of milliseconds here.
We go from 4,097 milliseconds
to 4,197 milliseconds so
this is about 100 milliseconds.
And that's a that's a normal time
range that we would think about,
like network transactions happening
in like multiple milliseconds,
10 milliseconds, 100 milliseconds, etc.
But when we're talking about processing
power, we need to zoom way further in.
So you can zoom in by scrolling up and
down.
You can also zoom in by,
if you focus up here,
you can zoom in by like
navigating with keystrokes.
>> Speaker 2: If I don't do that.
>> Todd Gardner: Come on so if we put
the focus down here, you can use WASD for
the gamers in the audience,
you can navigate this kinda like
you would a first-person shooter.
You can stray left and right and
you can zoom in and you can zoom out,
which is kinda fun way to navigate.
But as we zoom in here,
if we zoom in super close on this last CSS
file finishing,
we see the flame chart kinda take shape.
Now we can see, hey,
here's these tasks that are kicking
off as different bits are finishing.
We see, hey, this task is done which was
interpreting some of that CSS file and
it parses a style sheet and renders.
Se we parse a style sheet.
And then, we found a bit of JavaScript.
So we got to evaluate that script and
compile it and
that kind of stopped rendering
from happening for a little bit.
And then we figured out some more and
we parsed some HTML, and
we found some more JavaScript,
and we executed it.
So we can see at very low levels,
here's those Flame Charts that
we were interacting with.
Now we jumped in from Lighthouse strained
performance so that's like a big jump.
Lighthouse is like that 10,000 foot view,
your boss might've run a Lighthouse
report and sent it to you before.
Like it's a very consumer
level performance tool.
Whereas this is a very developer
focused performance tool.
This is letting you
understand the details and
we're gonna like do this
a little bit more too.
There's a couple of other
things I wanna show
off about performance
that are interesting.
So, we talked about Lighthouse,
we talked about the device toolbar,
we talked about the networking panel and
throttling, we talked about
the performance panel, waterfall chart,
flame chart, and CPU throttling.
Under the network chart is a maybe a more
simplified view of this top part here.
Is rather than just looking at what's
happening at a particular time,
we see an entire listing of here's all
the resources that were requested over
the network.
We also have that same kind of waterfall
concept, which is visible both at the top
and at the right, but we don't have as
much ability to really drill in here.
This is mainly for understanding the big
network requests and how long they take,
rather than the individual timings
of how things are loading.
We're gonna spend a lot more
time in Chrome in these
panels over the course of this course.
But are there any specific questions
that we should address before I move on?
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: There's a memory tab?
>> Todd Gardner: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Is that available in the
performance observer API to see if there's
like a memory leak or something?
>> Todd Gardner: It is not.
You can't necessarily report very
well on memory from real users.
There is an API.
So if we let me expand this for a second,
MDN performance memory,
there is a thing there.
There is a memory property
that has been deprecated, and
it's not in use very much anymore.
It's been replaced with measure,
user, agent specific memory.
Now this is only implemented in Chrome,
as a lot of things are,
but even within that,
it's very experimental.
What this does is it gives
you a general breakdown
of what's using memory, but
the data is all fuzzed.
Because it doesn't want to give you the
ability to like fingerprint a user based
on their memory profile.
And so it's not gonna give
you a whole lot of like
data about like exactly
how much memory is used.
It's going to round it up
to like big whole numbers.
So in terms of, could you get a general
idea if there's a memory leak?
Maybe, I haven't heard a whole
lot of success stories like that.
Generally, once you if you
feel there's a memory leak,
using the memory tab locally to kind
of diagnose that is super useful.
I'm not gonna get super involved into
the nitty gritty of JavaScript memory
management and
that sort of stuff as part of this.
But that's what that would
be particularly used for.
Nine times out of ten the big
web performance problems are not
usually JavaScript.
It's usually about layout, HTML,
images, getting things out of the wire,
doing things in the right
order that sort of stuff.
If you're down to optimizing
the JavaScript layer,
you've gotten a lot of
things right already.